---
inFeed: true
hasPage: true
inNav: false
inLanguage: null
starred: false
keywords: []
description: ''
datePublished: '2016-03-08T05:03:55.412Z'
dateModified: '2016-03-08T05:03:53.430Z'
title: ''
author: []
authors: []
publisher:
  name: null
  domain: null
  url: null
  favicon: null
sourcePath: _posts/2016-03-08-2fc22873-170c-49b8-bd2b-f223060ced04.md
published: true
url: 2fc22873-170c-49b8-bd2b-f223060ced04/index.html
_type: Article

---
Gift

My mom says I'm a great gifter.  If mom says so, it must be true.

I like giving gifts.  It's fun.  I know most people don't like it because they can't ever think of the perfect gift.  

It's easier when you aren't worried about getting the perfect gift.  You just have to think about who it's for.  What do they like...what do they REALLY like.  What little clues do they give you when they talk?  How can you lead them to give you more clues?  

I've been told I give great gifts, not just by my mom but by other people too and there are a couple of times when I really nailed it.  Like the time I gave my sister-in-law a home-made baby blanket for christmas (she cried and told my brother that she was going to leave him for me).  Or the time I had a cab driver deliver a pint of chocolate peanut butter ice cream to my mom after she told me that her day would be just PERFECT if she could have some chocolate peanut butter ice cream.

I'm still working on the finding the greatest gift for my partner Erin...

But the absolute BEST I've ever done,  the MOST appreciated and celebrated gifts I've ever given were all the same...and the cost me nothing in the way of dollars and cents.  

The best gift I've given is my attention.  Seriously.  

When I look back at the people who were most appreciative of something I gave them, it was my full and undivided attention.

Seems easy when you think of it.  Just give people your attention.  But ask yourself, how often do you REALLY give someone your full and undivided attention?  For me, it's hardly ever.  Sure, I go through the motions and give the impression that I'm listening and interested, etc.  But I'm never fully _present _with the other person.

When I am aware of it, I notice that my mind is on one or two other things aside from what is going on with the person I'm with.  I might be thinking about work or food or how I look or what someone across the room is thinking... all kinds of things are going through my mind when I'm with other people.

Ideally I would just be there.  With them.  Me and them and that's it.

Looking back I know I've accomplished this in the past, usually when someone I love is going through some difficult time in their life.  It's easy to do the right thing when others are suffering.  And I felt how much they appreciated my presence.  They were truly grateful for the fact that all of my attention was on them.

I try to give this gift to people as often as I can.  I fail more than I succeed but I will improve.  This gift costs me nothing and the work I do to develop this ability in myself will pay dividends both for me and everyone around me.